Justin Klemperer
INFO3401
Problem Set #5


Monday:
1. Starbucks wants to evaluate whether their mobile pay solutions are having a positive impact on customer service. Outline how they might collect data to answer this question using:
A. An Observational Study
        They could collect data by counting how many people come through the line, what they order, how many people use the mobile pay compared to normal buyers. By collecting data on the normal purchasing patterns of consumers, you could have a baseline to contrast the impact on customer service once their mobile pay app is implemented. You could also document people's emotions while using the mobile app compared to the reaction of regular purchasing patterns. Another aspect that could be beneficial would be to compare the time in which it takes an individual to pay throughout both forms of payment to determine the effectiveness of the mobile app.
B. Focus Groups
        They could create two different focus groups to determine the differences between interaction with mobile pay and normal purchasing patterns. One group could be the mobile app users while the other group is allowed to operate freely. Contrasting the differences between both focus groups could help highlight interesting new insights that were previously unavailable. This could help show what the interaction experiences would look like, and then use this small scale focus group test to change any sort of inefficiencies or problems that arise.
C. An Online Survey
        An online survey would help determine the impact of mobile pay and customer service if you ask participants questions about what they believe would be the most positive experience possible during the user interaction. I would ask questions regarding how likely an individual could see themselves using the app on a scale of 1-5, I would ask how frequent they go to starbucks, and how long it took them to use the app compared to normal patterns. An online survey could be beneficial for both participants as well as employees in order to find inefficiencies throughout both sides of the interaction. Launching an online survey would allow you to predict how this mobile app would be received in a larger setting, so the input from both users and employees could be a great advantage to try and create the best iteration of app to increase its chance of success.


Wednesday:
2. In 2014, Facebook conducted their infamous Emotional Contagion study where they manipulated users' news feeds to contain differing amounts of positive and negative content. Name the (a) research question, (b) independent variables, and (c) dependent variables that Facebook used in this study. 
3. What kind of data collection strategies would you use to:
A. Determine user perceptions of a social media campaign
        For this I would probably use a type of survey or questionnaire that could probe the opinions on people’s reactions to manipulated timelines dependent upon the positive or negative news feeds. Depending upon the answers for the participants, you could be able to accurately determine the population's reaction to the manipulations that have put in place. 
B. Assess the effectiveness of a web redesign
To assess the effectiveness of this web redesign, you could possibly run a controlled experiment in order to measure how efficiently people are able to use the new website. The responses of this controlled survey or series of interviews would allow a further inspection into what is valuable for the site user interaction and what users dislike about new design changes. A data collection strategy to use and decide whether the next iPhone can live up to the hype and ultimately turn a profit would be a simulation, then you could possibly follow it up by an observational study in real time. 
C. Decide whether the next iPhone will live up to its hype (and turn a profit)
        After the data collection was done, the decision would heavily rely on the trends that would become visible by user participation.The data could allow access into true user behavior patterns in relation to new technology and design patterns. The controlled experiments and survey/interviews help provide deeper analysis into the opinions for how the populus is reacting to the hype of the new iPhone.


4. For the three scenarios above, describe how you would conduct each investigation (i.e., not only the type of method, but what question would you answer, what procedure would you use, what kind of data would you collect, and how would you analyze that data to answer your question).
        To conduct the survey or questionnaire, you would first want to narrow down the ending result you wish to determine for the data collection. I would ask a variety of questions such as rating their overall timeline experience based upon what reaction or feeling they have during the interaction. A type of question I would like to answer after data collection would be does the type of content shown on the timeline change user perception of the social media platform experience?  The data you could collect would be able to track  demographics, positive and negative emotional reactions, what type of  actions they have taken or wish to take, analyzing all of it to determine if there’s a user demographic that perceives the campaign differently  versus another demographic.  To conduct another investigation, you could create a controlled experience where you have a test version of the web design that participants could be allowed to interact with and give input to their reaction or general consensus to the changes. You could run a study with 50 participants, and split the participants into two sections of 25, one being the newly test version of the site, and the other with the old site design. You could contrast the two data after collection and determine if there are any sort of ineffective or disliked characteristics or qualities with the new design. Lastly, to conduct a study for if the iPhone will live up to its hype, you could run a controlled simulation as well as an observation with the overall goal to answer the  question “will the new iPhone turn enough profit?”. The controlled trial would be a test version of the design, and collect data from participants with their reactions towards the new features and if they enjoy the new device. If the test studies run pretty successfully, you could then move into an observational study where you could see how users interact with the new design in real time and determine if there are any trends or required motives to change or alter marketing strategies.


5. Describe how you might use data fusion to determine how the location people are in influences the ways they communicate with others. Assume you have full access to data from all technologies that a person may be carrying with them or that may be embedded in the environment.


One way that you could use data fusion to determine how the location people are in influences the ways they communicate with others is by collecting some sort of geographical data from people’s smartphones and the usage of what kinds of applications are most popular. This could be in the form of users sharing their location on their phones to the researchers or by using an application that is already developed which monitors and tracks your phone usage, what apps you used, for how long, as well as your geological location. This is a lot for a participants personal life to hand over to a researcher, but you could fuse that data with what app they are using to communicate the most- whether it’s facetime, snapchat, Facebook, texting, etc. For example, you may predict that people will communicate differently depending on what location they are at. By fusing your data, you are able to interpret new patterns of how individuals are using their devices most often.


Friday:
Attached in Github